Hello and welcome back. In this lesson, I will show you how to use the skills that we created in the previous lesson.
And if you remember, we saved the skill in this folder called AI skills. And this is the skill.
So, in this exercise, we are going to use this skill to do reverse engineering on another CrackMe,
and we are going to use this CrackMe client and the server. So, let us first run this and see
how it works. We will run the activation server, and we will click Start. Then we
will run the client, so the client will connect to the server. So, make sure you
use the correct version of the client for the activation server, which is 32-
bit. You need to use the 32-bit client. If you are using the activation server, which is
64-bit, then make sure you also use the corresponding 64-bit client. In this
exercise, I am using the 32-bit. So, that is why I ran the 32-bit activation
server and the corresponding 32-bit client. So, here is how it works. When the
client starts, it will ask you to enter a serial number. Let's say I enter
something which is wrong, and then I click Activate. It tells me, "Wrong serial."
So what happens behind the scenes is that the client connects to the server
over the network. In this case, both are on the same network, same computer. We are
simulating a server activation system, and so when a client sends this serial
number to the server, the server will check it and then return whether it's
correct or wrong. So when the client receives the message that the number
that was sent is wrong, it will then pop up the error message, "Wrong serial." So
this simulates the actual scenario where you install software, and then when you
want to activate or register, your software will connect to the Internet to
connect to the activation server on the Internet. So, to make this a realistic
experience, we will assume that this activation server is also not within our
reach. We are not going to hack the activation server. So we are going to
crack the client because the client is on our machine. So we assume this
activation server is somewhere on the Internet. So I hope that clarifies the
scenario of this exercise. So, now we are going to fire up our Codex, so let's
click on the Codex here. And notice that my Codex is now in dark mode. If you want
to also have a dark mode like this, then click on the settings. Go to Settings. Go
to Appearance, and under here, click on this selection: Dark. If you click on
Light, then you will get a light mode. So, just click on Dark to get the dark
mode. Thereafter, you will be having a dark mode. Let's close the sidebar. So, now
I will tell this Codex to read the skill file, read the skill file on how
to connect to the x64dbg MCP server. Then I give the path, so I just copy the path, or
maybe I just right-click the file itself and copy as a path, and then I paste it
here. After that, I will close this, and I will take note of the error message,
which is saying, "Wrong serial." So, I just type in here first. Press Shift+Enter to go to a new line,
and then type in, uh, "Wrong serial," just as a temporary scratch pad. I just write
it here first. So, now I'm going to close this so that I won't forget what the error message was.
So, I will close the client, but I won't close the server. The server will still be running,
and then I will right-click to start my x32dbg. So, right-click on x32dbg and run as administrator.
Then I'll open the client, the correct client, which is the 32-bit client. Okay, so now I will
search for this string, "Wrong serial." So, what I do is I right-click here. I search for current module
string references. Then I'll narrow down by filtering this string, "Wrong serial." So, I just
cut out this thing from here now and paste it here, and I've got an address, so I just go to that
address by double-clicking on it, and I can see it here: "Wrong serial." Now let me scroll up to look for
the start of this function, which contains this string. So, now let's go up, scroll up,
and here is the start of the function. Now make sure that before you start this exercise,
you have already disabled ASLR for your virtual machine and also for this binary. Otherwise,
the address you see here will be different from mine. If you forgot how to
disable ASLR, please review the earlier lessons on
disabling ASLR. So, now I want Codex to analyze the code starting from
here. So, what I do is I go back to Codex, and I say, "Connect to x64dbg, then
disassemble this function, which starts from address," and then you
copy this address, right-click and copy address, and right-click and paste it
here. This disassembles the function, which starts from address, to understand
how the algorithm works to show the message, "Wrong serial," including the
control flow logic, and whether and how it will show
alternative messages, if any. So, this is the prompt: "Read the skill file on how to
connect to the x64dbg MCP server." I give it the path to the skill, and then I say, "Connect
to x64dbg, and then disassemble the function which starts from address, this address here,
maybe I should put a 0x prefix to indicate that this is a hex number, to understand how
the algorithm works to show the message, "Wrong serial," including the control flow logic and
how it will show alternative messages, if any. And then I make sure I select the highest
possible model that I have at the time of recording. So, I currently see GPT-5.5, and
I select that one. And for the reasoning effort, I also select High because I want it to think.
This might be a bit complex because it needs to understand the algorithm. Then, the last
part of the problem, I say, "Then explain to me the control flow logic, or
how it shows, or how it decides to show either the wrong serial message or
alternative message, if any. So, that is what I want to know." So, I click on Go and
let it go to work. So, now it is thinking. It says, "I will read the x64dbg MCP
connection skill first," and so on. And now it says, "I'm going through the handshake
directly," and so on. And now it says, "I have the main control flow block," and after six minutes,
it came back with the result, and it managed to disassemble, and it reports the function has two
normal message paths. It managed to convert the assembly code into C language, which is actually
the pseudocode over here. You can see that this is the approximate control logic. It gets the text
and then it computes the length, and it sets up numeric control. It converts to computed, and then
from here, if computed is not one, then show unregistered; else, show the text registered
and say thank you. And here, it shows the key branch
for this, and then here it says this address is the string
compare routine and returns zero when the strings are
equal. Other alternative message is "Correct key. Thank you."
Okay, so this is the path which jumps to the
success path. This one, this one. So, I'll just copy this and
confirm with it: "Would you say that this jump determines which message to show?" Click Go.
Yes, it says this jump is the decisive branch for which message is shown, and it says ESI
holds the string compare result from comparing the computed value against one. So, we go to this
location now and look for this jump. So, we right-click this address, copy, and then right-click here,
and go to this location expression, paste it there, click OK, and you can see here now the jump.
In order to cause this to jump, we just do assembly here. Just right-click on this,
and then do an assembly here. Assemble, and then make sure you click Keep Size,
and change this to an unconditional jump like this. So, the instruction set is the same size. Simply OK.
Right, so now it will jump. No matter whether the test is true or false, it will jump. It doesn't
depend on the result of the test. So, now we can patch it, patch file, and over here we can rename
it as client, and at the back, we put dash v2 for version 2. Click OK, and now we can go to the
version 2 and run it and see how it works. Just give it any wrong serial key. Click Activate,
and it says, "Correct key." So, it works. So, this is how you can use Codex to help
you understand the control flow logic so that you will know where to
patch. So, that's all for this video. Thank you for watching.